{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red63\green110\blue116;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c24706\c43137\c45490;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 If you\'92re reading this file, it is assumed that you already have the mud client up and running, and you wish to tweak it for the screen reader.\
\
You can find these instructions online, but this file is here for the technically challenged and/or for convenience.\
\
Follow these instructions in order as they will make the process of configuring your computer much easier.\
\
1. Install Python:\
\
\pard\tx543\pardeftab543\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 brew install python3\
\
2.  Clone the Screen Reader repository:\
\
git clone https://github.com/tspivey/tdsr.git\
\
3.  Move to the Screen Reader Folder:\
\
cd tdsr\
\
*** This folder should be located in your home directory. Do not remove it. ***\
\
4.  Install it:\
\
pip3 install -Ur requirements.txt\
\
\
5.  Run the Screen Reader:\
\
tdsr/tdsr\
\
*** Notes for the Screen Reader taken from readme. ***\
## Terminal setup\
Open Terminal preferences, under Profiles check Use Option as Meta key.\
## Keys\
(alt refers to the meta key.)\
* alt u, i, o - read previous, current, next line\
* alt j, k, l - read previous, current, next word\
* alt m, comma, dot - read previous, current, next character\
* alt k twice - spell current word\
* alt comma twice - say current character phonetically\
* alt c - config.\
* alt q - quiet mode on/off. When on, text is not automatically read.\
* alt r - start/end selection.\
* alt v - copy mode. Press l to copy the line the review cursor is on, or s to copy the screen.\
\
## Configuration\
Once in the config menu, you can use:\
* r - set rate.\
* e - Set typing echo\
* v - set volume (value between 0 and 100).\
* p - toggle symbol processing.\
* d - set cursor delay (in MS). The default is 20.\
* Enter - exit, saving the configuration.\
\
## Symbols\
Symbols can be added in the configuration file (```~/.tdsr.cfg```),\
under the symbols section.\
\
The format is:\
```\
character code = name\
```\
Because of how the config system works, it's best to do this with one TDSR open, then exit and re-launch to see the changes.\
\
\
*** Tweaks ***\
\
You don\'92t have to do this, but I recommend it for ease of use.\
\
Here\'92s how to make the screen reader run on terminal start up:\
\
1.  Go into terminal settings with command comma.\
2.  Make sure you\'92re in the profile section. You can find out by interacting with the toolbar and selecting \'93profile\'94. \
3.  Select the keyboard tab and check the box that says \'93use alt as meta keys\'94. \
4.  Go to the \'93Shell tab\'94 and check the box that says, \'93Run command\'94.\
5.  In the edit box that follows enter tdsr/tdsr\
6.  Check the box that says, \'93Run inside shell\'94.\
7. Close settings.\
You may have noticed that voiceover and the screen reader speak at the same time, and this is annoying, so let\'92s tell VO to shut it when terminal\'92s the active window.\
\
1.  Go into voiceover utilities with VO F8.\
2.  Go down to \'93activities and click add.\
3.  Call the activity whatever you\'92d like such as \'93Accessible terminal\'94.\
4.  Click the checkbox that says \'93voices\'94.\
5.  Click \'93set\'94 and  the the checkbox for \'93mute speech\'94.\
6.  Go to \'93use this activity for\'94, and select \'93terminal\'94 in the combo box.\
7. Click \'93Close\'94 and leave voiceover utility.\
\
If you ever want to undo this, just go back into Vo utilities and activities, and uncheck the speech box. Toggling that off and one will do and undo this tweak.\
\
Final notes:\
If you want to change your system voice, go into system preferences and accessibility. Then go down to speech.  Or go to \'93dictation and speech\'94 in system prefs if you use an old dinosaur as I sometimes do.\
Your system voice can go faster than the 100 percent that the system prefs says. So when you\'92re changing the rate with the screen reader keep this in mind. For example, I think I have mine set at 550.\
}